#801: documentation: Adding explanatory text about Old expressions (#820)
dafny-lang/dafny: docs/_includes/Expressions.md

TO BE WRITTEN -- allocated predicate

## Old and Old@ Expressions {#sec-old-expression}

````
OldExpression_ = "old" [ "@" ident ] "(" Expression(allowLemma: true, allowLambda: true) ")"
````

An _old expression_ is used in postconditions or in the body of a method
or in the body or specification of any two-state function or two-state lemma;
an _old_ expression with a label is used only in the body of a method at a point
where the label dominates its use in this expression.

`old(e)` evaluates
the argument using the value of the heap on entry to the method;
`old@ident(e)` evaluates the argument using the value of the heap at the
given statement label.

Note that **old** and **old@** only affect heap dereferences,
like `o.f` and `a[i]`.
In particular, neither form has any effect on the value returned for local

> variables or out-parameters or ghost values (as they are not on the heap).[^Old]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
variables or out-parameters (as they are not on the heap).[^Old]
```

The ghost-ness of something does not play into the semantics of `old`. In particular, if `x` is a local variable, then `old(x)` means the same thing regardless of if `x` is ghost or compiled. Also, if `f` is a field (or a `class` or `trait`), then `old(x.f)` means the same thing regardless of if `f` is ghost or compiled.

Author: OK

If the value of an entire expression at a
particular point in the method body is needed later on in the method body,
the clearest means is to declare a ghost variable, initializing it to the
expression in question.

> [^Old]: The semantics of `old` in dafny is quite different than similar

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[^Old]: The semantics of `old` in Dafny differs from similar
```

Author: OK

constructs in other specification languages like ACSL or JML.

The argument of an `old` expression may not contain nested `old`,
[`fresh`](#sec-fresh),
or [`unchanged`](#sec-unchanged) expressions,
nor [two-state functions](#sec-two-state) or [two-state lemmas](#sec-two-state-lemma).

Here are some explanatory examples. All `assert` statements verify to be true.
```
{% include Example-Old.dfy %}
```
```
{% include Example-Old2.dfy %}
```

> The next example demonstrates the interation between `old` and array elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next example demonstrates the interaction between `old` and array elements.
```

Author: OK

TO BE WRITTEN -- allocated predicate

## Old and Old@ Expressions {#sec-old-expression}

````
OldExpression_ = "old" "(" Expression(allowLemma: true, 
                                      allowLambda: true) ")"
               | "old" "@" label "(" Expression(allowLemma: true, 
                                      allowLambda: true) ")"
````

> An _old expression_ is used in postconditions or in the body of a method;

Reviewer: or anywhere (spec or body) of a two-state function or two-state lemma

Author: OK

`old@ident(e)` evaluates the argument using the value of the heap at the
given statement label.

Note that **old** and **old@** only affect heap dereferences,
like `o.f` and `a[i]`.
In particular, neither form has any effect on the value returned for local
variables or out-parameters or ghost values (as they are not on the heap).[^Old] 
If the value of an entire expression at a
particular point in the method body is needed later on in the method body,
the clearest means is to declare a ghost variable, initializing it to the
expression in question.

[^Old]: The semantics of `old` in dafny is quite different than similar 
constructs in other specification languages like ACSL or JML.

The argument of an `old` expression may not contain nested `old`, 
[`fresh`](#sec-fresh),
or [`unchanged`](#sec-unchanged) expressions, 
nor [two-state functions](#sec-two-state) or [two-state lemmas](#sec-two-state-lemma).

Here are some explanatory examples. All `assert` statements verify to be true.
```
{% include Example-Old.dfy %}
```
```
{% include Example-Old2.dfy %}
```
The next example demonstrates the interation between `old` and array elements.
```
{% include Example-Old3.dfy %}
```

> TODO: Make sure links above are connected

Reviewer 2: Does this TODO still apply?

Author: Checked
